[Music]
hey guess what scientists have found
plastic eating bacteria boy if only they
would come up with some robocall eating
bacteria yeah a computer dials you to
sell you something you don't want and
then their whole thing falls apart hey
we can dream can't we well back to our
story bacteria that munch on plastic
could this be the answer to humanity's
environmental crisis after all we're
drowning in tons of plastic and it's
hurting our oceans the creatures in them
and even our own health keep watching to
learn how this discovery came about and
what it means for all of us and don't
forget to click the subscribe button and
turn on notifications to join us on the
bright side this microscopic plastic
eater isn't your average bacteria
scientists actually found a way to
mutate this microorganism and boost its
planet-saving power this little mutant
isn't the kind you'd find in some comic
book universe it can't fly shoot lasers
out of its eyes or sprout claws from its
knuckles its superpower is simple yet
vital for humanity it can make the world
a better place by eating away all the
plastic waste and with about 20,000
water bottles being bought every second
around the world it's got a big job to
do so why might eating plastic be cooler
than shooting lasers well unless you've
been living under a rock you probably
know that we're in the grips of a global
crisis involving plastic you see plastic
is the reason why millions of oceanic
life die each year a staggering 19
billion that's billion with a B pounds
of plastic end up in our oceans every
year once it's there it gets ingested by
the animals that humans eat which means
our health gets affected too that's just
how the food chain works you are what
you eat right boy if that's right then
I've become a chocolate chip cookie
anyways if you love fish shrimp or
Lobster
just know that a world
without seafood is a real possibility if
things don't change plastic can disrupt
ecosystems and create more and more
areas where nothing can survive we don't
feel the urgency of the situation
because we don't see it every day if you
look outside your window the street
might look clean and there's probably no
trash in sight but the facts show that
the earth is drowning in tons of plastic
9.1 billion tonnes to be exact where did
all that plastic come from well everyone
contributes to it how many water bottles
have you used in your life what about
trash bags plastic utensils soda bottles
detergents body lotion boy when you
think about it so many things come in
plastic containers to be fair plastic
really is a convenient material it's so
much easier to put your sandwich in a
ziplock bag then in a container you'll
have to wash later it's easy to get
plastic grocery bags at the store
instead of packing reusable ones to
drink from a single-use water bottle
when you're out and about instead of
toting your own around and to host a
party using plastic plates and utensils
instead of washing dinnerware for a ton
of people later on it's also super cheap
and lightweight so it's no wonder
plastic is used so much plastic is all
around us and get this it's even inside
of us yep plastic is used so extensively
that it's been found in human stool
chances are that you no matter where you
are in the world are probably pooping
out plastic in fact there's probably
plastics sitting in your gut right now
plastic is taking over the world first
it was the oceans then marine life and
now the human body one of the biggest
problems is that plastic takes years and
years to biodegrade the plastic bottle
you drank water from will actually
outlive you by a long shot
it takes around 400 years for some types
of plastic to fully biodegrade like the
ones used in water and soda bottles as
for those seemingly flimsy little
plastic straws you drink from they take
about 200 years
breakdown completely now you can see the
urgency of the situation the waste keeps
on building up and it's not going
anywhere for hundreds of years that's
why the discovery of this bacteria is so
important it all started with several
diligent Japanese researchers who spent
five years digging through piles of
garbage yep five years knee-deep in
trash all in the name of science
and to save the world of course in the
piles of waste they discovered a strand
of bacteria that's evolved to eat a
particular type of plastic called
polyethylene terephthalate boy that's a
mouthful commonly known as pet or peat
if there's a water bottle in your house
right now look at the bottom label and
you'll probably see that it's made of
peat the Japanese researchers findings
were published in the journal Science
according to them the bacteria could
break the plastic down into smaller
pieces but not fully eat it away it took
about six weeks for the bacteria to eat
through a thin layer of plastic that's
when UK scientists from the University
of Portsmouth teamed up with the US
Department of Energy's National
Renewable Energy Laboratory they were
studying a particular enzyme inside the
bacteria that allowed it to break down
plastic
you see that's what enzymes do they're
little molecules inside all living
organisms that assist in biochemical
reactions basically they help your body
break stuff down it'd be cool if after
years of strenuous work studying the
bacteria the UK and US scientists had
masterfully created an awesome mutant
enzyme that would break down plastic a
lot faster but the whole thing actually
just happened by accident as they were
studying the enzymes in the bacteria
they decided to tweak it a little bit
and inspect it with x-ray technology
they didn't mean to but the happy
accident created an enzyme that was 20%
better at eating plastic and could break
it down in a matter of just a few days
enzyme technology could be used to help
humanity's trash problem but it's still
in its early stages the researchers are
continuing to tweak the enzyme in hopes
that they can improve upon
even further and use it on a larger
scale there just might be an enzyme soon
that can eat away plastic even faster
because remember we got a bunch of it so
is that it have we discovered the
magical cure is this enzyme your ticket
to no more plastic poop well if only the
creation of this super enzyme is a great
way to kick off a solution to plastic
pollution but this enzyme
despite its mutant nature can't undo all
the pollution that's currently in the
world not to mention we can't expect it
to do all the work for us the fact that
people are still buying and discarding
plastic by the tons makes it clear that
this enzyme can't solve it all according
to city lab 1 million water bottles are
produced every minute in the world yet
only 10 percent get recycled you already
know where the rest ends up as long as
people keep buying and using it
companies will continue to manufacture
plastic the cycle will keep on going
until the consumer is willing to break
it that's how prevention plays a big
role the mutant enzyme needs your help
cue the heroic music aid the mutant
enzyme in its goal to rid the world of
plastic by avoiding using it so much a
it might be a little inconvenient at
first you might spend a bit of money but
you'll be reducing your environmental
footprint tenfold and create a better
world because of that plus there's a lot
in it for you you'll be saving yourself
from all the health risks connected to
the ingestion of micro plastics there
are tons of ways you can reduce your use
of plastic get a reusable bottle and
fill it up instead of buying cases of
bottled water don't give in to the lazy
convenience of plastic plates and
utensils use porcelain dinnerware and
just do the dishes afterwards make it
fun and turn on some music or your
favorite show instead of building your
collection of plastic grocery bags oh
come on
every home has a bag full of bags get a
reusable cloth grocery bag and if you
absolutely must use single-use plastics
be
to recycle them afterwards if you do
this you won't be contributing to
plastic pollution and hopefully a newer
version of the mutant enzyme can handle
the rest
so there do you have any other tips on
how people can cut down on their use of
plastics please share them in the
comments below don't forget to give this
video a like send it to your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
you